# Horizontal Gene Transfer project
## Collaborative project for Eliot Bush

## Goals:  
+ Partially reconstruct gene family lineages in Escherichia Coli
+ Identify horizontal gene transfer events

### superalignv2.py & phylibalign.py  

These two python scripts are very similar.  They take a file with blocks of genes (.afa) and convert it to fasta format.

### fasta2phylip.sh  

This is a shell script that converts fasta files to phylip format.


### mrca.py

mrca(tree, family) returns the most recent common ancestor for a given gene family.

### testATree

The correct phylogenetic tree for our 5 sample species.  I typed this out by hand based on a tree generated by RAxML, there was no script directly involved in making this.

### processFamGenes

This is a collection of scripts put together to generate the needed information
to run dupDel.  It's a good idea to run this once and keep the files around.
It is important to note that the input files are made once with other scripts I
haven't looked into.

Input:
+ fam.out (silix results)
+ geneSpeciesMap.txt
+ dbList.txt (file with sample species)
+ geneOrder.txt 

Output:
+ famGenes.txt
+ famInfoResult.txt
+ adjacencyInfo.txt

Sample command: python processFamGenes.py -f fam.out -m geneSpeciesMap.txt -d dbList.txt -g geneOrder.txt

### dupDel

This script calculates the minimum cost and associated duplications/deletions for every gene family.

Input:
+ testATree
+ famInfoResult.txt

Output:
+ dupDelAll.txt

Sample command: python dupDel.py -t testATree -f famInfoResult.txt -d 3 -c 5 -n 1

### htrans.py

This is a wrapper for the main pipeline.  Make sure you've done all the preprocessing steps before running this (Preprocessing not included in this repository).

Example: python htrans.py -f siLiX_families -m gene<->species_map -d list_of_species_of_interest -g gene_order -t phylogenetic_tree -b deletion_cost -c duplication_cost -s #_of_species -o full_species_list

### Authors & Contributors

Kevin Heath & Zunyan Wang

### Support or Contact

Email me at kevin.n.heath@gmail.com
